CELEBRATIONS IN SHANGHAI TURN
TRAGIC WITH DOZENS KILLED IN A
STAMPEDE.
GOOD EVENING, I'M HARI
SREENIVASAN.
GWEN IFILL AND JUDY WOODRUFF ARE
AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY, ONE
YEAR AFTER CONVICTION AN
EGYPTIAN COURT ORDERS A RETRIAL
FOR THREE IMPRISONED AL JAZEERA
JOURNALISTON CS HARGES OF
SPREADING FALSE NEWS.
ACROSS THE U.S. MILLIONS OF
WORKERS GET RAISES IN 2015 AS
MINIMUM WAGE INCREASES TAKE
HOLD.
PLUS, ECONOMIC STRATEGIES TO
HELP YOU STAY TRUE TO YOUR NEW
YEAR'S RESOLUTIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: THOSE ARE SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Sreenivasan: AROUND THE
WORLD, PEOPLE WELCOMED THE START
OF A NEW YEAR AND ALL THE
PROMISE IT HOLDS.
BUT FOR SOME IN SHANGHAI, THE
YEAR BEGAN TRAGICALLY AFTER A
STREET CELEBRATION TURNED INTO A
STAMPEDE THAT KILLED 36 PEOPLE.
ANXIOUS FRIENDS AND RELATIVES
FILLED THE WAITING ROOMS AT
HOSPITALS IN SHANGHAI TODAY.
THEY SOUGHT INFORMATION ABOUT
LOVED ONES CAUGHT IN THE DEADLY
STAMPEDE DURING NEW YEAR'S EVE
CELEBRATIONS.
AS AUTHORITIES LOOKED FOR
ANSWERS, PEOPLE GATHERED AT A
MAKESHIFT MEMORIAL, AND
WITNESSES RECOUNTED THE HORROR
OF THE CITY'S WORST DISASTER IN
RECENT HISTORY.
>> ( translated ): IT'S TOO
CRUEL.
PEOPLE IN FRONT OF US HAD
ALREADY FALLEN TO THE GROUND,
PEOPLE WERE STEPPING ALL OVER
THEM.
PEOPLE JUST NEEDED TO LEAVE THE
SITE.
IT'S PEOPLE'S LIVES AT STAKE.
WE FELT DEATH SO CLOSE TO US
LAST NIGHT.
WE WERE HORRIFIED.
>> Sreenivasan: POLICE TODAY
DENIED REPORTS THAT THE STAMPEDE
STARTED AFTER PEOPLE RUSHED TO
GRAB FAKE MONEY FALLING FROM A
NIGHTCLUB IN SHANGHAI'S
WATERFRONT AREA.
CHINESE PRESIDENT XI JINPING HAS
DEMANDED AN INVESTIGATION AND
NEW YEAR'S DAY CELEBRATIONS IN
THE CITY HAVE BEEN CANCELLED,
ACCORDING TO CHINESE MEDIA.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
THOUSANDS OF MILES FROM THE
TRAGEDY, POPE FRANCIS MADE A
WISH FOR NO MORE WARS.
>> ( translated ): THIS
PROXIMITY OF GOD TO OUR LIVES
GIVES US TRUE PEACE.
PEACE, THE DIVINE GIFT THAT WE
IMPLORE ESPECIALLY TODAY.
PEACE IS ALWAYS POSSIBLE.
IT'S ALWAYS POSSIBLE, WE HAVE TO
SEARCH FOR IT.
BUT AMID THE REVELRY, THERE WERE
NEW PROTESTS IN PLACES LIKE
BOSTON WHERE A SMALL GROUP OF
DEMONSTRATORS STAGED A PEACEFUL
DIE-IN OVER RECENT POLICE
KILLINGS OF UNARMED BLACK MEN
AROUND THE COUNTRY.
THE TRADITIONAL TIMES SQUARE
BALL DROP, WHICH THIS YEAR DREW
A MILLION PEOPLE.
MEANWHILE, THE 126TH ANNUAL ROSE
PARADE WAS THE CENTER OF
ATTENTION IN SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA.
THIS YEAR, ONE OF THE COLDEST ON
RECORD, THERE WAS A NEW FACE
INVOLVED IN THE OLD TRADITION.
JOAN WILLIAMS RODE THE LEAD
FLOAT, NEARLY 60 YEARS AFTER SHE
WAS DENIED THE HONOR BECAUSE SHE
IS AFRICAN AMERICAN.
THE FIRST VICTIM OF THE
"AIRASIA" PLANE DISASTER HAS NOW
BEEN IDENTIFIED.
THE WOMAN'S REMAINS WERE
RETURNED TO HER FAMILY AND LAID
TO REST IN A FUNERAL CEREMONY IN
SURABAYA, INDONESIA.
WHERE THE JETLINER TOOK OFF
SUNDAY BEFORE DISAPPEARING WITH
162 PEOPLE ABOARD.
RECOVERY EFFORTS TO FIND MORE
BODIES IN THE JAVA SEA RESUMED
BRIEFLY, UNTIL WIND AND RAIN
HINDERED THE OPERATION.
NINE CTIMVIS HAVE BEEN FOUND SO
FAR.
BUT THERE'S STILL NO SIGN OF THE
PLANE ITSELF.
NORTH KOREA'S LEADER KIM JONG UN
SAID HIS COUNTRY IS OPEN TO
TALKS OR EVEN A SUMMIT WITH
SOUTH KOREA.
KIM MADE THE REMARKS DURING A
NEW YEAR'S ADDRESS ON STATE
TELEVISION.
NORTH AND SOUTH KOREA ARE
TECHNICALLY STILL AT WAR.
EVEN AS HE INDICATED A
WILLINGNESS TO TALK, HE BLAMED
SOUTH KOREA FOR CURRENT
TENSIONS.
>> SOUTH KOREAN GOVERNMENT
SHOULD STOP ALL WAR
MANEUVERS AND RECKLESS
MILITARY DRILLS THAT IT HAS
MADE WITH FOREIGN COUNTRIES
AN TURN ITS STEPS TOWARDS
RELIEVING THE TENSION IN THE
KOREAN PENINSULA.
NEEDLESS TO SAY CONVERSATION
CAN'T BE IMPLEMENTED NOR THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
NORTH AND SOUTH PROCEED WHEN
THERE ARE MILITARY DRILLS TO
OPPOSE ONE ANOTHER IN A
WAR-LIKE ATSPHEMORE
>> Sreenivasan: SOUTH KOREAN
OFFICIALS LATER CALLED THE MOVE
MEANINGFUL. THE TWO NATIONS LAST
HELD A SUMMIT IN 2007.
THE PRESIDENT OF SYRIA, BASHAR
ASSAD, MADE A RARE VISIT TO THE
FRONT LINES OF THE CIVIL WAR
OVER NEW YEAR'S EVE.
ATEST TELEVISION AIRED FOOTAGE
OF ASSAD VISITING DIFFERENT
GROUPS OF SOLDIERS IN EASTERN
DAMASCUS LAST NIGHT.
HE ALSO SAT DOWN AND ATE WITH
SOME OF THEM.
THE DAMASCUS NEIGHBORHOOD HAS
SEEN INTENSE FIGHTING IN RECENT
MONTHS.
A BRITISH-BASED HUMAN RIGHTS
GROUP REPORTED TODAY MORE THAN
76,000 PEOPLE WERE KILLED IN
FIGHTING IN SYRIA IN 2014.
THAT MAKES IT THE DEADLIEST YEAR
SINCE THE WAR BEGAN IN 2011.
IN THE U.S., GENERAL MOTORS
ANNOUNCED THREE NEW RECALLS
TODAY, ON TOP OF ONE YESTERDAY
FOR FAULTY IGNITION SWITCHES.
THE RECALLS AFFECT 92,000 TRUCKS
AND SUV'S.
IN THE LAST YEAR, G.M. HAS
RECALLED ABOUT 15 MILLION
VEHICLES AROUND THE WORLD FOR
IGNITION AND KEY RELATED
PROBLEMS.
THE FAST-FOOD CHAIN CHIK-FIL-A
HAS ANNOUNCED IT IS
INVESTIGATING A POSSIBLE DATA
BREACH.
IN A STATEMENT ON ITS WEBSITE,
THE RESTAURANT CHAIN SAID IT HAS
RECEIVED REPORTS OF POTENTIAL
UNUSUAL ACTIVITY INVOLVING
PAYMENT CARDS USED AT SEVERAL OF
THEIR LOCATIONS.
THE LOCATIONS WERE NOT DISCLOSED
AND CHIK-FIL-A OFFICIALS SAID
THEY FIRST BECAME AWARE OF THE
SUSPICIOUS ACTIVITY ON DECEMBER
19TH.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR.
IMPRISONED AL JAZEERA
JOURNALISTS TO BE RETRIED IN
EGYPTIAN COURT.
HOW WILL MINIMUM WAGE INCREASES
IN TWENTY STATES HELP OR HURT
THE JOB MARKET?
ECONOMIC STRATEGIES TO KEEP NEW
YEAR'S RESOLUTIONS.
A LOOK BACK ON THE MAJOR STORIES
AROUND THE WORLD AND WHAT'S
AHEAD FOR 2015.
MICROBREWERIES IN SOUTH AFRICA
TARGET A GROWING BLACK MIDDLE
CLASS.
AND, THE HARROWING STORIES OF
CHILEAN MINERS WHEN THEY WERE
TRAPPED 2,000 FEET BELOW GROUND.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR 369 DAYS, A
TRIO OF AL JAZEERA JOURNALISTS
HAS BEEN HELD IN AN EGYPTIAN
JAIL.
BUT TODAY, WITH THE LATEST
RULING FROM EGYPT'S HIGHEST
APPEALS COURT, THEIR CASE TOOK A
HOPEFUL TURN.
OUTSIDE THE CAIRO COURTHOUSE, A
CROWD DOMINATED BY POLICE AND
MEDIA WAITED FOR NEWS ON THE AL-
JAZEERA JOURNALISTS' APPEALS.
IN JUNE, MOHAMED FADEL-FAHMY, A
CANADIAN-EGYPTIAN; AUSTRALIAN
CORRESPONDENT PETER GRESTE; AND
EGYPTIAN BAHER MOHAMED WERE
HANDED SEVEN TO TEN YEAR
SENTENCES ON CHARGES OF
PUBLISHING FALSE EGYPTIAN NEWS
AND AIDING THE OUTLAWED MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD GROUP.
BUT OUTSIDE EGYPT, THE TRIAL WAS
WIDELY VIEWED AS A SHAM AND THE
VERDICTS SPARKED AN
INTERNATIONAL OUTCRY.
SUPPORTERS ORGANIZED PROTESTS
AND SOCIAL MEDIA CAMPAIS,GN
CLAIMING THE JOURNALISTS WERE
UNFAIRLY CAUGHT UP IN TENSIONS
BETWEEN EGYPT AND QATAR, THE
OWNERS OF AL-JAZEERA.
BUT THE TWO COUNTRIES HAVE
RECENTLY BEGUN A PUBLIC
RECONCILIATION.
AND IN LATE DECEMBER, GRESTE
THANKED HIS SUPPORTERS IN A
LETTER WRITTEN FROM HIS CAIRO
CELL, SAYING:
"WE HAVE CREATED A HUGE GLOBAL
AWARENESS OF NOT JUST OUR CAUSE,
BUT THE FAR WIDER AND MORE VITAL
ISSUES OF PRESS FREEDOM, THE
PERSECUTION OF JOURNALISTS, AND
OF JUSTICE IN EGYPT."
>> Sreenivasan: TODAY, EGYPT'S
HIGHEST COURT GRANTED THE THREE
RETRIALS.
LAWYERS FOR THE JOURNALISTS
WELCOMED THE DECISION, SAYING
THE INITIAL VERDICTS WERE BASED
ON FLAWED EVIDENCE:
>> THEY ASSUME THAT IF YOU WORK
FOR AL JAZEERA AUTOMATICALLY YOU
ARE A MEMBER IN THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD, WHICH IS NOT TRUE
AND IS ILLEGAL.
>> Sreenivasan: STILL, FAMILY
MEMBERS EXPRESSED DISAPPOINTMENT
THAT THE THREE WOULD NOT BE
RELEASED ON BAIL.
>> I WAS EXPECTING, YES A
RETRIAL, T I BUWAS EXPECTING
WITH THAT, A RELEASE TODAY, WE
WERE REALLY HOPING FOR THAT, WE
WANTED MOHAMMED TO COME WITH US
HOME TODAY.
>> Sreenivasan: AND IN DOHA, AL-
JAZEERA'S MANAGING DIRECTOR
PUSHED FOR AN EXPEDITED RETRIAL.
>> ( translated ): WE WELCOME
THIS INITIAL VERDICT AND WE
REQUEST THEIR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
WITHOUT ANY CONDITIONS.
LEAVING THEM IN JAIL, REGARDLESS
OF HOW LONG THEY ARE THERE, IS
ANOTHER INDICATION TO THE GLOBAL
MEDIA, AL JAZEERA AND ALL THE
JOURNALISTS, THAT THE PRESS IS
STILL OPPRESSED IN EGYPT.
EARLIER TODAY, I SPOKE WITH
BORZOU DARAGAHI, HE'S BEEN
COVERING THE JOURNALISTS'
DETENTION FOR THE FINANCIAL
TIMES IN CAIRO.
BORZOU, START BY TELLING US
WHAT HAPPENED IN COURT
TODAY.
>> FIRST OF ALL I SHOULD
JUST GIVE A CAVEAT, THE
JOURNALISTS WERE NOT ALLOWED
INTO THE COURTROOM THIS IS
BASED ON SPEAKING TO DEFENSE
ATTORNEYS AS WELL AS TO
MEMBERS OF THE FAMILIES OF
THE DEFENDANTS WHO WERE
ALLOWED INTO COURT, THEY
WERE, YOU KNOW, APPARENTLY
IT WAS A VERY SHORT SESSION,
LESS THAN HALF AN HOUR IN
WHICH THE DEFENSE LAWYERS
WERE ALLOWED TO PLEAD FOR
THEIR CLIENTS TO ARC ON
BEHALF OF THEIR CLIENTS AND
GIVE VARIOUS ARGUMENTS AS TO
WHY THE CASEDLEGAL SCRUTINY.
THIS IS A COURT OF-- , IN
THE EGYPTIAN LEGAL SYSTEM,
ITS SOLE ROLE IS TO
SCRUTINIZE COURT DECISIONS
TO SEE IF THEY MEASURE UP TO
LEGAL STANDARDS, AND IF THE
CASE GETS REFERRED TO A
COURT OF APPEALS, AT THE END
OF SESSION THERE WAS AN HOUR
WHERE THE JUDGE WAS
DELIBERATING AND HE CAME
BACK, WE WERE TOLD BY COURT
DECISIONS, WE NEVER ACTUALLY
SAW THE JUDGE, THAT THE CASE
HAD BEEN VACATED, SO TO
SPEAK.
THE VERDICT HAD TO BE
CANCELLED AND A RETRIAL
ORDERED VAZ WAS THERE ANY
EXPLANATION ON WHY THESE
INDIVIDUALS WERE NOT LET OUT
ON BAIL?
>> THERE WAS NO EXPLANATION
OF ANYTHING.
THERE WAS NO EXPLANATION TO
THE COURT'S REASONING FOR
VACATING THE PREVIOUS JUNE
COURT DECISIONS, AND THERE
WAS NO EXPLANATION TO WHY
THEY WEREN'T RELEASED ON
BAIL.
THERE WAS NO REAL
COMMUNICATION BETWEEN THE
COURT OFFICIALS AND THE
PUBLIC, OR WITH THE
DEFENDANTS WHO WERE NOT IN
THE COURT SESSION, OR TO THE
DEFENSE LAWYERS.
>> Srennivasan: DO WHEN DOES
THE RETRIAL START?
>> WE'RE NOT SURE OF THAT,
EXACTLY.
FROM MY UNDERSTANDING, AND
SPEAKING TO THE DEFENSE
ATTORNEYS, WITHIN A WEEK THE
COURT OF APPEALS WILL
ANNOUNCE A TRIAL DATE WHICH
SHOULD START WITHIN A MONTH.
SO THAT MEANS THAT THERE'S
NO CHANCE FOR THESE GUYS TO
BE RELEASED FROM PRISON ON
BAIL UNTIL THAT FIRST COURT
HEARING, WHICH SHOULD BEGIN
WITHIN A MONTH.
>> Srennivasan: HOW MUCH OF
THIS IS POLITICAL VERSUS
LEGAL?
THERE'S A LOT OF SPECULATION
THAT THIS TRIAL OR THE
RETRIAL HANGS ON THE FATE OF
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
EGYPT AND QATAR WHO OWNS AL
JAZEERA.
>> IF YOU TALK TOW GYP SHAN
OFFICIALS, THEY'RE VERY
STRIDENT ABOUT THE INTEGRITY
OF THE EGYPTIAN JUDICIAL
SYSTEM AND THE INDEPENDENCE
OF THAT JUDIY.
MANY PEOPLE ARE VERY
SKEPTICAL ABOUT THOSE
CLAIMS.
THEY SEE A LOT OF POLITICS
IN THE PROSECUTION OF THIS
AND OTHER CASES.
AND YOU KNOW, BASED ON THE
COMMENTS OF CERTAIN
OFFICIALS, YEAH, THIS
DIPLOMATIC SPAT BETWEEN
EGYPT AND QATAR IS PART OF
THE PROBLEM IN GETTING THESE
GUYS FREED AND GETTING THEM
OUT OF JAIL AND ENDING THIS
WHOLE CHARADE, I DON'T KNOW
WHAT ELSE TO CALL IT.
BECAUSE THESE GUYS ARE
CLEARLY NOT GUILTY OF
ANYTHING OTHER THAN BEING
ODE JOURNALISTS.
SO YOU KNOW, IT SEEMS LIKE
THAT WILL BE A BIG ACTOR.
BUT IT'S NOT JUST A
DIPLOMATIC DISPUTE.
THERE'S ALSO BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS AT STAKE HERE.
BECAUSE THE QATARI
GOVERNMENT, WHEN THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD WAS DOMINANT
HERE, INVESTED BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS IN THE EGYPTIAN
CENTRAL BANK, AND NOW WANTS
THAT MONEY BACK.
IN ADDITION, THE QATARI
GOVERNMENT HAS SUED THE-- OR
RATHER AL JAZEERA OWNED BY
THE QATARI GOVERNMENT HAS
SUED EGYPT FOR $140 MILLION
FOR DAMAGES PERTAINING TO
THIS PARTICULAR CASE AND
OTHER MATTERS.
AND SO THERE'S THIS BIG
FINANCIAL DISPUTE AS WELL AS
A POLITICAL DISPUTE JZ SO
THE EGYPTIAN PRESIDENT COULD
HAVE GOTTEN INVOLVED.
HE SAID THAT THIS IS A COURT
THAT SHOULD RETAIN ITS
INDEPENDENCE.
HOW INDEPENDENT IS THIS
PARTICULAR COURT THAT THIS
RETRIAL WAS GRANTED UNDER?
>> WELL, MANY PEOPLE THAT I
HAVE SPOKEN TO, LEGAL
PROFESSIONALS IN EGYPT SAY
THAT THE COURT OF CASTIAN IS
KNOWN TO BE RELATIVELY FREE
OF POLITICS, RELATIVELY
INDEPENDENT, HAS A RATHER
HIGH RELATIVE DEGREE OF
INTEGRITY COMPARED TO OTHER
PARTS OF THE EGYPTIAN
JUDICIARY AND LEGAL SYSTEM.
SO IT HAS A VERY GOOD
REPUTATION.
BUT IN RECENT MONTHS, RECENT
WEEKS, ACTUALLY, WE'VE HAD
LEAKS OF AUDIOTAPES, RATHER
CREDIBLE LEAKS SHOWING HIGH
LEVEL MEMBERS OF THE
GENERALS AROUND AL SYSYSISI
OPENLY DISCUSSING WITH EACH
OTHER HOW THEY WOULD
MANIPULATE THIS COURT CASE
OR THIS LEGAL MATTER OR
THAT.
THESE HAVE BEEN AIRED ON
VARIOUS INTERNET STATIONS
AND SO ON.
AND THESE HAVE REALLY RAISED
QUESTIONS ABOUT JUST HOW
MUCH AND HOW THE EGYPTIAN
JUDICIARY SYSTEM IS AN
INDEPENDENT OR NOT.
>> Srennivasan: ART, BORZOU
DARAGAHI, THANK YOU SO MUCH
FOR JOINING US.
>> Sreenivasan: MILLIONS OF
WORKERS ACROSS AMERICA JUST GOT
A PAY RAISE, THANKS TO NEW
MINIMUM WAGE LAWS THAT WENT INTO
EFFECT OVER THE NEW YEAR'S
HOLIDAY.
21 STATES JUST INCREASED THEIR
MINIMUM WAGE.
AS A RESULT, A MAJORITY OF
STATES IN THE COUNTRY NOW
REQUIRE THAT WAGES BE ABOVE THE
FEDERAL MINIMUM OF $7.25 AN
HOUR.
WHAT THOSE INCREASES WILL MEAN
IS A MATTER OF DEBATE.
THE MINIMUM WAGE HAS EXISTED IN
THE U.S. FOR OVER 70 YEARS, YET
ECONOMISTS ARE SHARPLY DIVIDED
OVER WHETHER IT HELPS LOW-INCOME
WORKERS EARN A BETTER LIVING OR
HURTS THEM BY CHOKING THE NUMBER
OF JOBS AVAILABLE.
TO SORT OUT THE DEBATE, I SAT
DOWN YESTERDAY WITH TWO
ECONOMISTS WITH TWO DIFFERENT
PERSPECTIVES.
THE FEDERAL MINIMUM RAISE
NOW IS 7.25.
STATE'S MINIMUM RAGES I
RANGE FROM 5.75 TO 5.47.
I STAT DOWN WITH DIFFERENT
ECONOMISTS WITH TWO
DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE.
>> JOINING ME DIANA
FURCHGOTT ROTH WITH
21.ORGANIZE AT THE MANHATTAN
INSTITUTE AND JARED
BERNSTEIN WITH THE CENTER
FOR BUDGET AND POLICY
PRIORITIES.
SO FIRST LET ME JUST START
WITH THE BASIC QUESTION, WHO
IS GOING TO BE AFFECTED BY
THESE INCREASES IN MINIMUM
WAGE?
>> WHAT WE'RE GOING TO SEE
IS THAT PEOPLE WHO HAVE
SKILLS THAT ARE UNDER THE
NEW MINIMUM WAGE WHETHER
IT'S $10 AN HOUR OR $12 OR
15, THOSE PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO FIND IT A LOT HARDER TO
FIND JOBS.
AND THAT'S THE REAL
DISADVANTAGE OF RAISING THE
MINIMUM WAGE.
THE PEOPLE WITH SKILL LEVELS
UNDER THAT AMOUNT FIND IT
FAR MORE DIFFICULT TO GET
EMPLOYED.
>> SO I VERY MUCH DISAGREE
WITH THAT ASSESSMENT.
I THINK THERE'S GOING TO BE
A LOT OF FOLKS WHO WILL
BENEFIT FROM THE WAGE
INCREASE.
AND IN FACT, WE NOW HAVE
LITERALLY DECADES OF
RESEARCH UNDERSCORING THAT
POINT.
BUT MORE SPECIFICALLY, THE
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE
AFFECTED ARE NOT AS A
SOMEWHAT TYPICALLY THOUGHT
TEENAGERS OR FAMILIES OF
RICH KIDS OR SOMETHING.
IT'S ADULTS, OVER 80% ARE
ADULTS.
MOST OF THEM WORK FULL-TIME,
ABOUT A QUARTER OF THEM ARE
PARENTS, SO THEY'VE GOT
KIDS.
ABOUT 70% HAVE AT LEAST A
HIGH SCHOOL DEGREE, MAYBE
TEN PERCENT HAVE A COLLEGE
DEGREE.
SO WE'RE REALLY TALKING
ABOUT THE FOLKS THAT YOU
PICTURE WHEN YOU THINK OF
THE LOW-WAGE LABOR FORCE.
PEOPLE ACTUALLY DEPEND ON
THEIR EARNINGS, PARTICULARLY
THIS LITTLE BIT OF A BOOST
IN THEIR EARNINGS TO MAKE
ENDS MEET.
>> Srennivasan: DIANA, YOU
WERE MENTIONING THE 15 AND
$10.
A LOT OF STATES INCREASING
THEIR MINIMUM WAGES ARE NOT
EVEN AT THAT $9 MARK OR $10
MARK.
>> EXACTLY, YES.
BUT WHEN YOU HAVE A MINIMUM
WAGE AS WE DO RIGHT NOW, A
$7.25 AN HOUR, WHICH ADDS UP
IN COSTS TO ABOUT $8 TO THE
EMPLOYER, YOU HAVE TO HAVE
SKILLS OF UP TO THAT IN
ORDER TO GET HIRED.
SO WHETHER THE MINIMUM WAGE
GOES UP TO $9 AN HOUR OR
$9.50, OR $10, YOU DO FIND
THAT MORE AND MORE PEOPLE
ARE SQUEEZED OUT.
AND THAT THEY CAN'T GET THAT
FIRST JOB.
IF THEY CAN'T GET THE FIRST
JOB, THEY CAN'T GET THE
SECOND JOB.
AND IT'S JUST IMMORAL IN THE
UNITED STATES TO SAY THAT
PEOPLE WITH NO SKILLS ARE
NOT ALLOWED TO WORK.
THAT IF YOU HAVE SKILLS
UNDER A CERTAIN LEVEL, I ARE
NOT ALLOWED TO WORK IN THE
UNITED STATES.
IT'S UNAMERICAN.
IT'S NOT WHO YOU ARE.
>> IT'S VERY AMERICAN,
ACTUALLY, SINCE THE FAIR
LABOR STANDARDS ACT OF 1988
STRO A WAGE FLOOR ON THE
ECONOMY, WHICH WE KNOW IS
THE MINIMUM WAGE.
I THINK WHAT DIANA AND I
DIFFER IS IN THE FOLLOWING.
DIANA IS TALKING ABOUT THE
THEE REE OF WAGE
DETERMINATION.
IF YOU RAISE PEOPLE'S WAGES
ABOVE A CERTAIN LEVEL, THEN
SOMEBODY IS GOING TO LOSE
THEIR JOB.
WHAT IS MUCH MORE RELEVANT
IN THIS CASE IS THE
EMPIRICAL EVIDENCE OKAY, NOW
THAT WE HAVE SOMETHING LIKE
26 STATES WITH MINIMUM WAGES
ABOVE THE FEDERAL LEVEL,
ABOUT 20, 21 NOW INCREASING
THEIR MINIMUM WAGES AS WE
SPEAK, WE HAVE SOMETHING
THAT IS QUITE RARE IN
ECONOMICS.
KIND OF A PSEUDOEXPERIMENT
WHERE WE CAN LOOK AT ALL OF
THESE DIFFERENT CHANGES OVER
LITERALLY DECADES NOW, AND
EVALUATE THE KIND OF CLAIMS
THAT DIANA MAKES.
AND WHAT WE FIND IS THAT
THEY SIMPLY DON'T BEAR OUT.
>> Srennivasan: WHAT IS THE
BEST --
>> THERE WAS A NEW STUDY
THAT JUST CAME OUT IN
DECEMBER, LIKE TWO
PROFESSORS AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF CALIFORNIA SAN DIEGO
MEDICAL DIAG.
AND IT SHOWED THAT WHEN THE
MINIMUM WAGE WENT UP THE
LAST TIME, FROM 5.15 AN HOUR
TO 7.25 AN HOUR, LOW-SKILL
INDIVIDUALS EARNED ABOUT
$100 A MONTH LESS IN THE
YEAR FOLLOWING THE 7.25.
AND $150 A MONTH LESS IN THE
TWO YEARS FOLLOWING THAT.
AND THAT FEWER PEOPLE WERE
EMPLOYED.
SO YES, THERE ARE STUDIES
THAT SHOW SOME THINGS.
STUDIES THAT SHOW THE
OTHERS.
THERE ARE TEENS THAT CAN GET
JOBS AT 7.25 AN HOUR WHO
WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO GET JOBS
AT $10 AN HOUR.
RIGHT NOW ONLY 3% OF WORKING
AMERICANS ARE MAKING MINIMUM
WAGE.
YOU CAN DO A LOT OF STUDIES
DOES IT GO UP, AND NOT FIND
A WHOLE LOT OF EFFECT ON
MOST PEOPLE IN THE
WORKFORCE.
BECAUSE 9-- 97% ARE MAKING
MORE THAN MINIMUM WAGE, NOT
BECAUSE THE LAW SAYS SO, BUT
BECAUSE EMPLOYERS HAVE TO
PAY THEM MORE TO STOP THEM
MOVING TO OTHER JOBS.
IT INCREASES INEQUALITY IF
POOR PEOPLE CANNOT FIND JOBS.
>> ONE POINT, THAT I
FACTUALLYLY DISAGREE WITH,
BECAUSE THERE HAS BEEN
CONSIDERABLE STUDIES,
NOTHING THEORETICAL,
EMPIRICAL STUDIES SHOWING
THAT THE INCREASE IN THE
MINIMUM WAGE HAS ACTUALLY
LOWERED IN EQUALITY.
AND THAT MAKES A LOT OF
SENSE.
BECAUSE IF YOU THINK ABOUT
WHERE ALL THE GROWTH HAS
REALLY THE LAST FEW DECADES,
IT'S LARGELY BEEN ELUDING
LOW AND MIDDLE WAGE WORKERS
AND GOING RIGHT TO THE TOP
OF THE SCALE.
THE MINIMUM WAGE HAS HELPED
LIFT THE BOTTOM A BIT AND
HELPED SOME OF THESE
LOW-WAGE WORKERS GET A BIT
MORE OF THEIR FAIR SHOW OF
THE GROWTH THAT THEY
THEMSELVES ARE HELPING TO
CREATE.
>> WHAT ABOUT THAT IDEA,
THAT BASICALLY THERE WILL BE
A RIPPLE EFFECT IN BOTH
DIRECTIONS.
WHEN YOU SAY, FOR EXAMPLE,
THAT LOW SKILLED WORKERS
AREN'T GOING TO BE ABLE TO
ENTER THE WORK DIVORCE, AND
HE'S ALSO SAYING IT MIGHT
ACTUALLY HAVE A RIPPLE
EFFECT IN THAT IF I HAVE TO
NOW GET $9 AN HOUR, THE
PERSON WHO ALREADY WAS
MAKING $9 AN HOUR AT GRADE
NUMBER TWO OR THREE, THEY
WILL HAVE TO GET A BUMP UP
AS WELL.
>> EVERYBODY KNOWS THAT YOU
DON'T HIRE SOMEBODY IF
THEY'RE NOT WORTH THE
AMOUNT.
WHEN ARE YOU PAYING MORE,
YOU'RE HIRING A DIFFERENT
KIND OF PERSON.
LOOK AT CHILI'S RESTAURANT,
FOR EXAMPLE, CHILI'S
RESTAURANTS ARE PUTTING IN
PLACE iPADS AND KIOSKS SO
YOU CAN ORDER WITHOUT
SERVICE.
SO YOU CHANGE YOUR MIX OF
WORKERS AND TECHNOLOGY.
BUT AGAIN, THE PEOPLE WHO
GET HURT AND THE PEOPLE WITH
THE LOW SKILLS WHO CANNOT
GET THAT JOB AT CHILIES,
BECAUSE THERE HAS BEEN AN
iPAD THAT IS TAKING THE
PLACE OF A JOB.
OR BUT GO TO CVS.
>> Srennivasan: WHAT ABOUT
THE IDEA THAT EMPLOYERS ARE
GOING TO START HIRING AT
EXACTLY THE THRESHOLD WHERE
THEY CAN KEEP SOMEONE AT
PART-TIME OR KEEP SOMEONE,
IF THEY HAVE TO PAY A HIGHER
MINIMUM WAGE, MAYBE IT'S A
BOOST TO EMPLOYMENT, BUT NOT
THE EMPLOYMENT WE REALLY
WOULD LIKE TO SEE IF.
>> AGAIN, I THINK IF YOU GO
BACK TO THE EMPIRICAL
RESEARCH, WHAT WOULD BE
IMEMPLOYED BY YOUR QUESTION
IS THAT EMPLOYERS WILL
SIGNIFICANTLY ALTER THEIR
HIRING PRACTICES, WILL HIRE
MORE PART-TIME WORKERS OR
WILL HIRE MORE-- HIGHER
SKILLED WORKERS.
THEY'RE HIRE AWAY FROM LESS
BUT AGAIN, THE EMPIRICAL
SKILLED WORKERS.
EVIDENCE SHOWS NONE OF THAT
BUT AGAIN, THE EMPIRICAL
TO BE THE CASE.
EVIDENCE SHOWS NONE OF THAT
WHAT WE FIND-- FOR EXAMPLE,
TO BE THE CASE.
THE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET
WHAT WE FIND-- FOR EXAMPLE,
OFFICE WIDELY AGREES TO BE
THE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET
THE NONPARTISAN ARBITER OF
OFFICE WIDELY AGREES TO BE
THESE KINDS OF ARGUMENTS,
THE NONPARTISAN ARBITER OF
FOUND RECENTLY THAT IF WE
THESE KINDS OF ARGUMENTS,
RAISE THE MINIMUM WAGE TO
FOUND RECENTLY THAT IF WE
10.10 AN HOUR, THAT'S THE
RAISE THE MINIMUM WAGE TO
FEDERAL PROPOSAL OVER THREE
10.10 AN HOUR, THAT'S THE
YEARS, PHASE IT IN, 24.5
FEDERAL PROPOSAL OVER THREE
MILLION PEOPLE WOULD
YEARS, PHASE IT IN, 24.5
BENEFIT.
MILLION PEOPLE WOULD
500,000 PEOPLE WOULD BE
BENEFIT.
HURT.
500,000 PEOPLE WOULD BE
SO I'M GRANTSING THAT
HURT.
POINTS.
SO I'M GRANTSING THAT
THAT'S A 49-1 BENEFIT TO
POINTS.
COST RATIO.
THAT'S A 49-1 BENEFIT TO
AGAIN, THE POINT IS NOT THAT
COST RATIO.
YOU WILL HAVE MORE PART-TIME
AGAIN, THE POINT IS NOT THAT
OR MORE HIGHER SKILLED
YOU WILL HAVE MORE PART-TIME
WORKERS, THAT HASN'T BEEN
OR MORE HIGHER SKILLED
THE CASE AT ALL OF THIS
WORKERS, THAT HASN'T BEEN
MULTITUDE OF EXPERIMENTS
THE CASE AT ALL OF THIS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
MULTITUDE OF EXPERIMENTS
IF DOES WHAT IT SUPPOSED TO
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
DO.
IF DOES WHAT IT SUPPOSED TO
GIVE LOW-WAGE WORKERS A BIT
DO.
OF A BUMP.
GIVE LOW-WAGE WORKERS A BIT
>> Srennivasan: SO IN ANY
OF A BUMP.
CONVERSATION OF MINIMUM WRAJ
>> Srennivasan: SO IN ANY
THERE IS ALWAYS A LOT OF
CONVERSATION OF MINIMUM WRAJ
DATA.
THERE IS ALWAYS A LOT OF
WE WILL PUT BOTH SIDES OF
DATA.
YOUR ARGUMENT ON-LINE TO SEE
WE WILL PUT BOTH SIDES OF
WHERE DID HE OR SHE GET THAT
YOUR ARGUMENT ON-LINE TO SEE
NUMBER.
WHERE DID HE OR SHE GET THAT
SO DIANA FUN GOTH ROLT OF
NUMBER.
THE MANHATTAN INSTITUTE AND
SO DIANA FUN GOTH ROLT OF
JARED BERNSTEIN FROM THE
THE MANHATTAN INSTITUTE AND
CENTER OF BUDGET AND POLICY
JARED BERNSTEIN FROM THE
PRIORITIES.
CENTER OF BUDGET AND POLICY
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING
PRIORITIES.
US.
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING
>> THANK YOU.
US.
>> GREAT TO BE WITH YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
--
>> Sreenivasan: TO HELP RING IN
2015, TONIGHT WE START A NEW
WEEKLY FEATURE ON THE BROADCAST.
"MAKING SENSE THURSDAY," A
REGULAR REPORT ON BUSINESS,
FINANCE AND RELATED MATTERS.
TONIGHT, ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT
PAUL SOLMAN TAKES A LOOK AT HOW
TO FULFILL THOSE PERHAPS BY NOW
ALREADY BURDENSOME NEW YEAR'S
RESOLUTIONS.
>> I REALLY WANT TO LEARN
HOW TO NILT.
>> STAY BETTER ORGANIZED.
I'M GOING TO CREATE A
SCHEDULE.
>> TRY TO COMBAT
PROCRASTINATION AND FOCUS A
LITTLE MORE.
>> SAVE MORE MONEY.
>> GOING TO WORK HARDER.
THAT'S PRETTY MUCH IT.
>> AND HOW ARE YOU GOING TO
DO THAT?
>> SO NEW YEAR'S
RESOLUTIONS.
PEOPLE MAKE THEM.
AND JUST ABOUT AS OFTEN,
THEY BREAK THEM.
WHY?
>> BECAUSE THEY'RE
FORMULATED IN A WAY THAT IS
A GENERAL GOOD INTENTION BUT
IT'S NOT A PLAN.
>> IF THERE IS A MAN WITH A
PLAN FOR LEADING US NOT INTO
TEMPTATION, IT'S
PSYCHOLOGIST WALTER
MICHELLE.
AUTHOR OF THE MARSHMALLOW
TEST, MASTERING
SELF-CONTROL.
AND BY MSTERAING IT, WORKING
HARDER, SAVING MORE.
KEY FACTORS IN ECONOMIC
SUCCESS.
THE BOOK IS BASED ON HALF A
CENTURY OF RESEARCH BY
MICHELLE AND OTHERS THAT
BEGAN WITH A SIMPLE
EXPERIMENT.
NOW AMONG THE MOST FAMOUS
AND REPLICATED IN THE
HISTORY OF PSYCHOLOGY.
>> THERE'S A MARSHMALLOW.
YOU CAN EITHER WAIT AND I
WILL BRING YOU BACK ANOTHER
ONE SO YOU CAN HAVE TWO, OR
YOU CAN EAT IT NOW.
>> MICHELLE RAN THIS
SELF-CONTROL EXPERIMENT ON
SOME 650 PRESCHOOLERS AT
STANFORD UNIVERSITY IN THE
LATE '60s AND EARLY '70s.
MOST GOBBLED UP THE PUFFY
CONFECTION BUT ONE-THIRD
ABSTAINED LONG ENOUGH TO GET
ANOTHER.
>> YOU GET TWO.
>> AND DELAYING
GRATIFICATION AT EVEN THE
EARLIEST AGES HAS BEEN SHOWN
TO CORRELATE POWERFULLY OR
ELSE EQUAL WITH PROSPERITY
LATER IN LIFE.
MICHELLE FOUND THAT THE
SUCCESSFUL SELF-DENIERS HAD
A PRETTY SIMPLE STRATEGY.
>> WHICH IS THEY TRANSFORM
AN IMPOSSIBLY DIFFICULT
SITUATION INTO A RELATIVELY
EASY ONE BY DISTRACTING
THEMSELVES, BY TURNING
AROUND, BY PUTTING THE
MARSHMALLOW FARTHER AWAY.
OR I CAN DO IT BY EXPLORING
MY NASSAL CAVITIES OR MY EAR
CANALS AND TOYING WITH THE
PRODUCT.
THE FANCY WORD FOR IT NOW IS
EXECUTIVE CONTROL.
I'M ABLE TO USE MY
PREFRONTAL CORTEX, MY COOL
BRAIN, NOT MY HOT EMOTIONAL
SYSTEM.
I AM ABLE TO USE MY COOL
BRAIN IN ORDER TO HAVE
STRATEGIES THAT ALLOW ME TO
MAKE THIS MISERABLE,
EFFORTFUL WAITING EFFORTLESS
AND EASY.
>> OR NOT SO EFFORTLESS AND
EASY.
>> TWO MINUTES?
TEN MINUTES?
10 MINUTES!
>> TEN MINUTES!
>> I THINK SOME PEOPLE FIND
IT MUCH EASIER TO EXERT
CONTROL THAN OTHERS.
BUT NO MATTER WHETHER ONE IS
REASONABLY GOOD AT THIS
OVERALL OR EASILY BAD AT
THIS OVERALL, IT CAN BE
ENORMOUSLY IMPROVED.
>> SO HOW DO EXERT EXECUTIVE
CONTROL AS AN ADULT, FACING
VICES MORE INVITING THAN
MARSHMALLOWS WHEN CHILDISH
DISTRACTIONS NO LONGER WORK.
SO IF I HAVE A NEW YEAR'S
RESOLUTION TO DRINK A LITTLE
LESS THAN I DO, WHAT DO I
DO?
>> WHAT YOU NEED IS A PLAN
THAT SAYS AT THE END OF THE
DAY, 5:00 IS THE TIME THAT I
AM LIKELY TO HAVE A DRINK.
>> RIGHT.
OKA>>Y.
I HAVE TO HAVE A SUBSTITUTE
ACTIVITY AT THAT TIME SO
THERE WILL BE AN ALTERNATIVE
AND IT WILL BE VERY, VERY
PRACTICED WILL.
I MEAN TO GIVE YOU AN
EXAMPLE FOR MY OWN
EXPERIENCE, CHOCOLATE MOUSSE
IS GENERALLY IRRESISTABLE
FOR ME.
>> IS SELF-CONTROL STRATEGY.
>> I WILL ORDER THE FRUIT
SALAD.
AND THAT'S A SPECIFIC
REHEARSED PLAN SO BEFORE THE
GUY CAN TEMPT ME WITH THE
MOUSSE, I'M ALREADY ORDERING
THE FRUIT SALAD.
>> AND JUST TO BE SAFE.
>> THE IDEA THAT THE
CHOCOLATE MOUSSE BEFORE IT
WAS BROUGHT OUT OF THE
RESTAURANT KITCHEN MAY HAVE
HAD A COCKROACH HAVING A
LITTLE BREAKFAST ON IT
FIRST.
>> BEHAVIORAL ECONOMIST HAS
ME NEARED A DIFFERENT
APPROACH.
>> I GO TO THE RESTAURANT
WITH SOME FRIENDS, I KNOW
THAT AFTER I HAVE HAD MY
WINE, THE DESSERT MENU COMES
I WILL ORDER THE DESSERT
EVEN IF I SWEAR I WASN'T
GOING TO.
SO I TURN TO MY FRIEND AND I
WILL SAY IF FINE, LET'S GET
THE WINE.
BUT IF I EAT DESSERT, THEN I
OWE YOU $100.
>> CARLIN FIRST BECAME
INVOLVED IN SO-CALLED
COMMITMENT CONTRACTS IN GRAD
SCHOOL.
RESEARCHING THEM, EVEN
MAKING ONE WITH A FRIEND WHO
LIKE CARLIN WANTED TO LOSE
WEIGHT AND KEEP IT OFF.
>> THE CONTRACT WAS FOR
$10,000.
SO THE POINT WAS TO MAKE IT
FOR A LOT OF MONEY, ENOUGH
THAT IT WOULD BE REALLY,
REALLY PAINFUL TO WRITE THAT
CHECK.
>> HOW MUCH DID YOU LOSE?
>> I LOST 48 POINTS.
>> GROWING OUT OF THAT
EXPERIENCE, CARLIN
CO-FOUNDED A WEB SITE CALLED
STICK, IN PART FOR ITS
DISSTINKLY NONCARROT LIKE
APPROACH TO HELPING PEOPLE
REACH THEIR GOALS.
>> IF YOU PUT MONETARY
STATION UP YOU CAN HAVE IT
SO YOUR MONEY GOES TO SAY A
FRIEND WHO WILL HOLD YOU
ACCOUNTABLE.
OR ONE OF THE MORE POPULAR
OPTIONS IS THE ANTI-CHARITY,
NOW THE MONEY GOES TO
SOMETHING THAT YOU HATE.
THE NRA FOUNDATION IS ONE OF
THE MOST POPULAR CAUSES THAT
PEOPLE DON'T LIKE AND CHOOSE
ON THIS SITE.
>> E NTHATIONAL RIFLE
ASSOCIATION.
>> THE NATIONAL RIFLE
WE ALSO HAVE SUPER PACS LEFT
ASSOCIATION.
AND RIGHT AND THOSE ARE VERY
WE ALSO HAVE SUPER PACS LEFT
POPULAR BECAUSE THEY KIND OF
AND RIGHT AND THOSE ARE VERY
CAPTURE ALL THE ISSUES IN
POPULAR BECAUSE THEY KIND OF
ONE BUNDLE.
CAPTURE ALL THE ISSUES IN
KEEP IN MIND THAT THERE
ONE BUNDLE.
WOULD HAVE TO BE SOME
KEEP IN MIND THAT THERE
REPORTING OF THE FAILURE.
WOULD HAVE TO BE SOME
>> THEN THE MONEY GOES TO
REPORTING OF THE FAILURE.
SOME TRULY ODEO CAUSE.
>> THEN THE MONEY GOES TO
>> AND THE OTHER PART THAT
SOME TRULY ODEO CAUSE.
ALSO IS VERY POPULAR AND
>> AND THE OTHER PART THAT
VERY EFFECTIVE FOR A LOT OF
ALSO IS VERY POPULAR AND
PEOPLE.
VERY EFFECTIVE FOR A LOT OF
>> SO DO YOU HAVE TO ADMIT
PEOPLE.
THAT YOU FAED OILN FACEBOOK
>> SO DO YOU HAVE TO ADMIT
OR TWITTER?
THAT YOU FAED OILN FACEBOOK
>> BUT WHY DO OUR
OR TWITTER?
RESOLUTIONS SO OFTEN FAIL?
>> BUT WHY DO OUR
BECAUSE HUMANS LIKE YOU AND
RESOLUTIONS SO OFTEN FAIL?
ME AND WALTER MICHELE, BOTH
BECAUSE HUMANS LIKE YOU AND
OF US FORMER SMOKERS, TEMP
ME AND WALTER MICHELE, BOTH
ORLY DISCOUNT VALUING
OF US FORMER SMOKERS, TEMP
IMMEDIATE REWARDS MUCH MORE
ORLY DISCOUNT VALUING
THAN THOSE IN THE FUTURE.
IMMEDIATE REWARDS MUCH MORE
>> SO IF IT'S NOT NOW, IT'S
THAN THOSE IN THE FUTURE.
ESSENTIALLY NEVER BECAUSE
>> SO IF IT'S NOT NOW, IT'S
THE FUTURE, FOR EXPLEAM, THE
ESSENTIALLY NEVER BECAUSE
CANCER THAT I COULD GET IF I
THE FUTURE, FOR EXPLEAM, THE
KEPT SMOKING IS PROBE-- IT
CANCER THAT I COULD GET IF I
IS DISTANT.
KEPT SMOKING IS PROBE-- IT
WE DON'T KNOW FOR SURE.
IS DISTANT.
AND SO IT MIGHT AS WELL NOT
WE DON'T KNOW FOR SURE.
BE THERE.
AND SO IT MIGHT AS WELL NOT
UNLESS I DO SOMETHING THAT
BE THERE.
MAKES THE FAR AWAY
UNLESS I DO SOMETHING THAT
CONSEQUENCE IMMEDIATE AND
MAKES THE FAR AWAY
VIVID.
CONSEQUENCE IMMEDIATE AND
>> HENCE THE GRAPHIC
VIVID.
WARNINGS ON CANADIAN
>> HENCE THE GRAPHIC
CIGARETTES.
WARNINGS ON CANADIAN
A SIMILAR IMAGE 50 YEARS AGO
CIGARETTES.
GOT MICHELLE A THREE-PACKS A
A SIMILAR IMAGE 50 YEARS AGO
DAY ADDICT TO QUIT
GOT MICHELLE A THREE-PACKS A
PRACTICALLY COLD TURKEY.
DAY ADDICT TO QUIT
>> THAT'S A METASTASIZED
PRACTICALLY COLD TURKEY.
LUNG CANCER AND THOSE X
>> THAT'S A METASTASIZED
MARKS ARE FOR WHERE THE
LUNG CANCER AND THOSE X
RADIATION GOES.
MARKS ARE FOR WHERE THE
THAT WAS THE BEGINNING OF MY
RADIATION GOES.
ENDING MY SMOKING BECAUSE
THAT WAS THE BEGINNING OF MY
THE IMAGE OF ME ON A GURNEY
ENDING MY SMOKING BECAUSE
WITH LITTLE GREEN X MARKS IS
THE IMAGE OF ME ON A GURNEY
VERY, VERY VIVID AND IT
WITH LITTLE GREEN X MARKS IS
MAKES THE DISTANT PROBABLE
VERY, VERY VIVID AND IT
ELECTION CONSEQUENCE,
MAKES THE DISTANT PROBABLE
SOMETHING IMMEDIATE AND NOW
ELECTION CONSEQUENCE,
AND CHANGES THE CIGARETTE
SOMETHING IMMEDIATE AND NOW
FROM A HUGE TEMPTATION TO A
AND CHANGES THE CIGARETTE
SMALL DOSE OF POISON.
FROM A HUGE TEMPTATION TO A
>> IN THE END, THEN.
SMALL DOSE OF POISON.
>> THE MOST POWERFUL WAY TO
>> IN THE END, THEN.
HAVE CONTROL IS BY
>> THE MOST POWERFUL WAY TO
TRANSFORMING WHAT THE
HAVE CONTROL IS BY
STIMULUS MEANS.
TRANSFORMING WHAT THE
>> BUT OF COURSE, EVERYTHING
STIMULUS MEANS.
FOLLOWS FOR MAKING THAT
>> BUT OF COURSE, EVERYTHING
RESOLUTION IN THE FIRST
FOLLOWS FOR MAKING THAT
PLACE.
RESOLUTION IN THE FIRST
>> IT STARTS THE
PLACE.
CONVERSATION ABOUT TRYING TO
>> IT STARTS THE
CHANGE SOMETHING.
CONVERSATION ABOUT TRYING TO
>> YOU HAVE TO REALLY WANT
CHANGE SOMETHING.
TO BECAUSE YOU ARE TAKING
>> YOU HAVE TO REALLY WANT
THAT DELAYED GOAL TO LIVE
TO BECAUSE YOU ARE TAKING
LONGER, TO LIVE HEALTHIER,
THAT DELAYED GOAL TO LIVE
TO HAVE RETIREMENT FUNDS
LONGER, TO LIVE HEALTHIER,
WHEN YOU NEED THEM RATHER
TO HAVE RETIREMENT FUNDS
THAN TO NOT HAVE THEM.
WHEN YOU NEED THEM RATHER
IT IS WHAT WE WANT AND HOW
THAN TO NOT HAVE THEM.
WE THINK ABOUT WHAT WE WANT
IT IS WHAT WE WANT AND HOW
THAT CONTROLS AND REGULATES
WE THINK ABOUT WHAT WE WANT
WHAT WE'RE ABLE TO DO.
THAT CONTROLS AND REGULATES
>> PAUL SOLMAN REPORTING FOR
WHAT WE'RE ABLE TO DO.
THE PBS NEWSHOUR, FROM,
>> PAUL SOLMAN REPORTING FOR
HOPEFULLY, THE LAND OF
THE PBS NEWSHOUR, FROM,
SELF-CONTROL.
>> Sreenivasan: LAST YEAR, THE
U.S. CONFRONTED NEW KINDS OF
CONFLICTS AND CHALLENGES
OVERSEAS.
IN A SHIFTING POLITICAL AND
ECONOMIC LANDSCAPE, NEW ACTORS
ENTERED THE WORLD STAGE, WHILE
LONG-TIME POWERS TRIED
SURPRISING STRATEGIES.
GWEN IFIL TAKES A LOOK BACK AND
AT WHAT 2014 MEANS FOR THE NEW
YEAR.
>> Ifill: GLOBAL UPHEAVAL WAS
THE HALLMARK OF THE YEAR JUST
ENDING.
A PRO-RUSSIAN LEADER WAS TOPPLED
IN UKRAINE, A NEW GOVERNMENT AND
CIVIL WAR FOLLOWED, AND RUSSIA
SEIZED CRIMEA.
THE ISLAMIC STATE AND BOKO HARAM
BECAME HOUSEHOLD NAMES IN
FOREIGN POLICY CIRCLES.
U.S.-LED MIDDLE EAST
NEGOTIATIONS DERAILED AND A WAR
BROKE OUT BETWEEN ISRAEL AND
HAMAS.
EBOLA KILLED THOUSANDS IN WEST
AFRICA.
AMERICAN FORCES RETURNED TO
IRAQ.
AND THAT'S JUST THE BEGINNING OF
AN EVENTFUL YEAR THAT IS ALREADY
SPILLING OVER INTO THE YEAR TO
COME.
SO WHAT WERE THE BIGGEST GAME
CHANGERS?
AND WHAT COMES NEXT?
FOR THAT, WE TURN TO INDIRA
LAKSHMANNAN, FOREIGN POLICY
CORRESPONDENT FOR "BLOOMBERG
NEWS."
"WASHINGTON POST" FOREIGN
AFFAIRS COLUMNIST DAVID
IGNATIUS.
AND FORMER BRITISH FOREIGN
SECRETARY DAVID MILIBAND, NOW
C.E.O. OF THE INTERNATIONAL
RESCUE COMMITTEE.
WELCOME TO YOU ALL.
DAVID IGNATIUS, I WANT TO
START BY ASKING YOU JUST
FROM THE UNITED STATES POINT
OF VIEW, WHAT WAS THE
BIGGEST FOREIGN POLICY
CHALLENGE THAT THIS
ADMINISTRATION HAD TO DEAL
WITH?
>> I WOULD HAVE TO SAY, AN
IT'S A BIG LIST, THAT THE
MOST CONSEQUENCE WAS THE
BREAKOUT OF ISIS, THE
ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ AND
SYRIA, DRAWING THE UNITED
STATES BACK INTO WAR IN IRAQ.
AND I SAY THAT BECAUSE I
FEAR THAT THIS CONFLICT AND
THE CONSEQUENCES FOR AMERICA
WILL BE GENERATIONAL.
THIS IS GOING TO TAKE A LONG
TIME, THE RESILIENCE OF
THESE ISLAMIC FIGHTERS,
THEIR ABILITY TO RIP THROUGH
NORTHERN SYRIA AND
NORTHWESTERN EYE BACK-- IRAQ
WAS ASTONISHING, FORCING
OBAMA TO DOT THING HE LEAST
WANTED TO DO WHICH IS TO
REENTER THIS CONFLICT.
>> DAVID MILLER,-- MILIBAND,
FROM A GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE,
WHAT WOULD YOU SAY IS THE
BIGGEST CHALLENGE?
>> I THINK THAT THIS WAS A
VERY ODD DISORDER.
IT'S STRIKING THAT THE
BEGINNING OF THE YEAR PEOPLE
WERE TALKING ABOUT TENSIONS
IN THE SOUTH CHINA SEA.
NO ONE WAS TALKING ABOUT
TENSIONS ON THE
RUSSIA-UKRAINE BORDER.
BY THE END OF THE YEAR
OBVIOUS-- OBVIOUSLY RUSSIA
EMERGED AS THE BIGGEST GEO
POLITICAL SPOILER.
AND IN THE AGREEMENT THAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA STRUCK WITH
THE CHAIN EASE ON CLIMATE
CHANGE IS PERHAPS AN
INDICATION OF THE KIND OF
GEO POLITICAL COOPERATION
THAT COULD TAKE PLACE FOR
THE FINAL TWO YEARS OF HIS
PRESIDENCY.
HOWEVER FROM THE
HUMANITARIAN SECTOR'S POINT
OF VIEW, THE FACT THAT OLD
WARS IN SOMALIA, CONGO, ET
CETERA, CONTINUE AND NEW
WARS STARTED AS DAVID SAYS
BACK INTO IRAQ, THE SOUTH
SUDANESE CIVIL WAR, SUGGEST
THAT THE INTERNATIONAL
SYSTEM IS TO THE DOING A
GOOD JOB AT KEEPING A LID ON
CONFLICTS THAT ARE JUST
BUBBLING OVER I WANT TO
CIRCLE BACK TO THAT ISSUE OF
THE HUMANITARIAN IMPACT.
BECAUSE THERE ARE PLACES WE
TOUCHED ON WHERE THAT WAS A
BIG DEAL.
INDIRA, THINK ABOUT IT,
UKRAINE, SOMETHING THAT
CERTAINLY IS NOT RESOLVED
YET.
THERE ARE SO MANY OF THESE
ISSUES THAT REMAIN AND SOME
WE HAVEN'TED WHICH IS WHICH
STILL SPILL OVER.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
AND TO ME THE OTHER HUGE
CHALLENGE WE NEED TO TALK
MORE ABOUT IS RUSSIA AND
UKRAINE.
THAT IS A PROBLEM THAT IS
NOT GOING AWAY.
I DON'T THINK THERE IS
ANYONE THAT COULD HAVE
PREDICTED AT THE BEGINNING
OF 12014 THAT WE WERE GOING
TO SEE A SHELFED TRADE PACK LEAR
LEADING TO MASSIVE POPULAR
PROTEST, THE FALL OF HIS
GOVERNMENT, THE RISE OF A
WESTERN-ORIENTED GOVERNMENT
AND FINALLY PUTIN BEING, YOU
KNOW, WORRIED TO THE POINT
THAT HE FELT HE NEEDED TO
INVADE, ANNEX CRIMEA AND GO
DOWN THIS PATH OF
DESTABILIZING EASTERN
UKRAINE.
I THINK NOBODY SAW THAT
COMING.
AND IT'S GOING TO HAVE HUGE,
HUGE CONSEQUENCES.
NOT ONLY DO WE HAVE THE
BIGGEST EAST WEST STRUGGLE
SINCE THE END OF THE COLD
WAR, BUT WE HAVE THIS CYCLE
NOW OF SANCTIONS FROM THE
UNITED STATES AND EUROPE
WHICH HAVE NOT STOPPED
PUTIN'S BEHAVIOR.
AND COMBINE THAT WITH THE
OTHER HUGE STORY I THINK FOR
2014 WHICH IS THE DROP IN
THE PRICE OF OIL.
45% DOWN FOR CRUDE IN THIS
CALENDAR YEAR.
AND THAT HAS REALLY HIT
RUSSIA AND OTHER PETRO
STATES LIKE VENEZUELA, IRAN.
SO I THINK THAT'S A BIG
THING THAT IS GOING TO PUSH
PUTIN IN THE COMING YEAR.
>> Ifill: DAVID IGNATIUS,
SHE MENTIONED VLADIMIR PUTIN
BY NAME.
IS THERE ANY OTHER SINGLE
LEADER WHO WE SHOULD BE THE
MOST CONCERNED ABOUT,
WORRIED ABOUT, PLANNING OUR
FOREIGN POLICY AROUND?
>> I THINK WE SHOULD PAY
SPECIAL ATTENTION TO THE
LEADER OF CHINA WHO WOULD BE
ON MY LIST AS THE MOST
SKILLED AND SUCCESSFUL
LEADER OF THE YEAR.
SHE IDENTIFY THE BIGGEST
THREATS TO THE COMMUNIST
PARTY'S RULE, CORRUPTION AND
ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION THAT
CHINA IS FIGHT BEING.
AND HE WENT AFTER
AGGRESSIVELY, AFTER TOP
PARTY OFFICIALS FOR
CORRUPTION AND SIGNED A
CLIMATE PACT WITH PRESIDENT
OBAMA IN NOVEMBER THAT
NOBODY SAW COMING BUT THEY
SHOULD HAVE BECAUSE IT WAS
CLEAR THAT XI HAD MADE THE
DECISION, I HAVE TO SHOW MY
PEOPLE THAT I AM ACTING ON
THIS ISSUE THAT THEY FEAR IS
GOING TO MAKE CHINA UNSAFE
FOR THEM IN THE FUTURE.
SO I AM IMPRESSED BY HIS
SKILL AND AGGRESSIVENESS,
HIS BOLDNESS AS A LEADER.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO DEAL
WITH HIM MAYBE IN GOOD WAY,
COOP RATTIVELY.
MAYBE IN MORE DIFFICULT WAYS.
>> Ifill: AND DAVID WHAT DO
YOU THINK ABOUT BASHAR
AL-ASSAD IN SYRIA?
TO WHAT DEGREE IS HE A MAJOR
FIGURE WE HAVE TO BE WORRIED
ABOUT IN 2015?
>> WELL, SAD TO SAY
PRESIDENT ASSAD CERTAINLY
STRENGTHENED HIS POSITION IN
SYRIA.
BUT THE COUNTRY IMPLODED
UNDERNEATH HIMT IS I
ACTUALLY EXTRAORDINARY TO
THINK OF 12 MILLION PEOPLE,
HALF THE POPULATION UPROOT
READY FROM THEIR HOMES,
THREE TO FOUR MILLION IN
NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES.
AND OF COURSE, ISIS HAS
EMERGED NOT VACUUM THAT WAS
CREATED IN CENTRAL AND
EASTERN SYRIA.
ONE THING THAT I THINK IS
VERY, VERY IMPORTANT THAT
PEOPLE KEEP AN EYE ON IN
2015 IS HOW THE IRANIANS
DECIDE TO PLAY THAT CARDS.
NOT JUST ON THE NUCLEAR FILE,
BUT ALSO ON THE WIDER,
REGIONAL CONFLAGRATION THAT
IS ENGULFING SIGNIFICANT
PARTS OF THE MIDDLE EAST.
OBVIOUSLY THEY'VE BEEN
SIGNIFICANT DESTABILIZING
FORCE OVER THE YEARS.
BUT PARTLY BECAUSE OF THE
OIL PRICE CHANGE, BUT NOT
ONLY BECAUSE OF THAT.
ALSO BECAUSE OF POPULAR
PRESSURE INSIDE IRAN.
I THINK IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
TO SEE THEM AS HAVING AN
ABSOLUTELY PIVOTAL SENSE
OF-- SET OF DECISIONS TO
MAKE IN 2015.
>> Ifill: INDIRA, DO WE HAVE
TO WORRY NOW IN THIS POST
SNOWDEN ERA AS MUCH ABOUT
CYBERWARFARE AS
OLD-FASHIONED WARFARE.
>> CYBERWARFARE AS WE SEE IT,
WITH THE CLOSE OF THIS YEAR
WITH THE HACK OF SONY WHICH
MAY OR MAY NOT HAVE BEEN THE
RESULT OF THE NORTH KOREAN
STATE DEPENDING ON WHOSE
INTELLIGENCE YOU BELIEVE,
HAS TURNED OUT TO BE THE
CHEAPEST FORM OF WARFARE
SINCE THE BOW AND ARROW.
I DO THINK THAT THERE IS A
LOT OF POTENTIAL FOR SPOILERS
TO COME IN, JUST WE'VE SEEN
MAJOR ATTACKS ON MAJOR U.S.
BANKS, MAJOR U.S. RETAILERS,
AND NOW THIS ATTACK ON SONY
SHOWS THE ABILITY TO DO
THINGS QUITE CHEAPLY AND
EASILY WITH SORT OF OFF THE
SHELF MALLWEAR, I THINK THAT
IS A REALLY IMPORTANT THING
TO WATCH.
I ALSO AGREE THAT IRAN
REALLY BEARS WATCHING.
BECAUSE THAT COULD
POTENTIALLY BE A GAME
CHANGER.
IF THERE IS A POSSIBILITY,
AND I THINK THAT'S A VERY
BIG IF, OF GETTING A NUCLEAR
DEAL WITH IRAN, THAT COULD
LEAD TO SOME AGREEMENT ON
NORMALLIZATION JUST LIKE WE
HAVE SEEN AT THE END OF THIS
YEAR WITH CUBA.
I'M NOT SAYING IT WILL
HAPPEN BUT IT'S A BIG THING
TO WATCH.
>> Ifill: DAVID IG NAY
SHOULD-- IGNATIUS SHOULD WE
RESHAPE OR REDEFINE HOW THEY
WHICH ABOUT POLICY.
WITH CYBERWARFARE WHERE YOU
CAN WITH THE PUSH OF THE
BUTTON COMPLETELY CHANGE
WHAT WE ARE THINKING ABOUT
OR WHETHER WE ARE
OVERREACHING.
>> CYBERDIMENSION PUSHES
WARFARE INTO A ZU SPACE,
IT'S LIKE THE NUCLEAR
WEAPONS WHICH CHANGED THE
NATURE OF FOREIGN POLICY.
I WAS STRUCK THIS YEAR BY
THE WAY IN WHICH FOREIGN
POLICY PLAYED WITH PRESIDENT
OBAMA AND HIS PRESIDENCY AND
HIS LEGACY.
OOISES FOR GOOD OR FOR ILL.
>> BOTH.
AT THE MIDDLE OF THIS YEAR
IT WAS A COMMONPLACE AT
LEAST IN WASHINGTON THAT THE
TURBULENCE AROUND A WORLD
EXPLOSION OF PUTIN IN
UKRAINE, THE EXPLOSION OF
ISIS WAS A SIGN OF OBAMA'S
WEAKNESS THAT HE WAS WEAK
AND AFFECTLESS, I'M QUOTING
REPUBLICAN CRITICS NOW.
AND THAT THIS DISORDERED
WORLD WAS A CONSEQUENCE.
BUT AT THE END OF THE YEAR
I'M STRUCK BY ALL THE THINGS
OBAMA MUST BE GLAD HE DIDN'T
DO THAT CRITICS WERE URGING
HIM TO DO.
MUST BE GLAD THAT HE DIDN'T
TAKE MILITARY ACTION TO
CHECK THE RUSSIANS AND
UKRAINE, WHICH THE U.S.
COULDN'T HAVE FOLD UP.
HE MUST BE GLAD THAT HE
DIDN'T TAKE MORE EXTREME
ACTION EARLY IN IRAQ WHICH
MIGHT HAVE BLOWN THE
OPPORTUNITY TO GET A MORE
UNITED GOVERNMENT THERE.
SO I THINK THE YEAR ENDS FOR
OBAMA WITH THIS ATTEMPT TO
ENGAGE CUBA, WITH THE IRAN
TALKS GOING, THE OBAMA OF
2009 TALKING ABOUT
ENGAGEMENT, AND PROBABLY
JUST AS HAPPY NOT TO BE SEEN
AS THE TOUGH GUY AS HIS
CRITICS HAVE BEEN URGING HIM
TO BE.
>> AND DAVID MILIBAND THERE
ARE THE FOREIGN POLICY
CHANGES WHICH NOBODY CAN
PREPARE FOR.
AND I'M THINKING ABOUT
EBOLA.
THE KIND OF HEALTH CRISES,
THINGS WHICH AFFECT PEOPLE,
CATCH PEOPLE'S ATTENTION,
TAKE OUR EYE OFF OTHER
BALLS.
AND ISN'T DONE YET.
>> WELL, I THINK THAT THE
FACT THAT ONE REFUGEE
OCCURRED EVERY FOUR SECONDS
THERE 2014 TELLS YOU THE
SCALE OF CRISIS AND DISORDER
THAT EXISTS AROUND THE
WORLD.
ONE THING THAT STRIKES ME IS
HOW THE POLITICAL AND
ECONOMIC AND HUMANITARIAN
PILLARS OF SOCIETY'S
INTERSECT SO CLOSELY.
MANY OF THE PLACES THAT ARE
BEING TRUCK BY POLITICAL
DISORDER ARE ALSO GREAT
MARKETS WHERE BUSINESSES ARE
TRYING TO INVEST.
IN THE CASE OF EBOLA, THIS
HEALTH EMERGENCY HAS UPENDED
NOT JUST POLITICS BUT ALSO
ECONOMICS.
AND I THINK THERE ARE SOME
VERY IMPORTANT LESSONS THERE
ABOUT NOT JUST GOVERNMENT
BUT ALSO AID AGENCIES, HOW
WE THINK ABOUT HOW WE-- THE
LIBERIA SIERRA LEONE CASE
THAT YOU RAISE IS ONE THAT I
THINK VERY VERY FEW PEOPLE
PUT AT THE TOP OF THE LIST
EARLIER THIS YEAR.
YOU SEE COUNTRIES COMING
THROUGH A TERRIBLE CONFLICT
N A POST CONFLICT PHASE,
WE'RE BUILDING SYSTEMS OF
GOVERNANCE AND SERVICES THAT
COULD SURVIVE.
WHEN YOU THEN FIND OUT THAT
THERE WERE ONLY 15
AMBULANCES IN THE WHOLE OF
MONROVIA AT THE BEGINNING OF
THE EBOLA CRISIS, YOU SEE
HOW FAR WE'VE GOT TO GO TO
TACKLE SOME OF THE CAUSES OF
EXTREME POVERTY AND
INSTABILITY AROUND THE
WORLD.
AND THE FACT THAT NOW 50% OF
THE WORLD'S POOR LIVING ON
LESS THAN $1.25 A DAY ARE IN
CONFLICT WITH FRAGILE STATES,
TELLS YOU A LOT ABOUT THE
CHANGING GEOGRAPHY AND
POSSIBLY ALSO THE CHANGING
GEOGRAPHY AND INSTABILITY
AROUND THE WORLD.
>> INDIRA LAKSHMANNAN, DAVID
IGNATIUS, DAVID MILIBAND,
THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH.
>> THANKS.
>> Sreenivasan: IT'S BEEN 20
YEARS SINCE APARTHEID ENDED IN
SOUTH AFRICA.
AND DESPITE MANY SOCIAL AND
POLITICAL ADVANCES, MORE THAN A
QUARTER OF THE COUNTRY'S BLACK
AFRICAN POPULATION REMAINS IN
POVERTY.
40% IS UNEMPLOYED.
WHAT IS LESS REPORTED IN THE
U.S. HOWEVER, IS THAT
COMMUNITY'S RISING MIDDLE CLASS.
TONIGHT, NEWSHOUR SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT MARTIN SEEMUNGAL
INTRODUCES US TO ONE MAN WHO IS
EMBLEMATIC OF THAT ASCENSION.
AN ENTREPENEUR HOPING TO MAKE
HIS FORTUNE IN GOLD.
>> HE IS DOING SOMETHING
THAT HAS NEVER BEEN DONE
BEFORE.
HE'S BREWING HIGH-QUALITY,
CRAFT BEER IN SOWETO.
HE CALLS IT SOWETO GOLD.
>> WHENEVER I DRIVE TO WORK,
I THINK HOW WONDERFUL IT IS
THAT WE ARE STARTING THE
FIRST MICROBREWERY IN THE
TOWNSHIP.
I MEAN THE FIRST
MICROBREWERY IN THE COUNTRY
WAS IN 1983.
AND SINCE THEN ALL
MICROBREWERIES HAVE BEEN IN
WHITE SUBURBS.
AND THE FIRST TIME THAT WE
HAVE SET UP A BREWERY IN A
BLACK TOWNSHIP.
>> SOWETO, THE SPRAWLING
TOWNSHIP NEAR JO HANSBURG,
AN ENDURING SYMBOL OF THE
STRUGGLE AGAINST APPEAR-- A
APARTHEID, PARTS STILL HOME
TO THOUSANDS OF IMPOVERISHED
BLACK SOUTH AFRICANS.
BUT SOWETO IS ALSO CHANGED
IN THE 20 YEARS SINCE THE
FIRST MULTIRACIAL ELECTION.
STREETLIGHTS ARE EVERYWHERE.
THE ROADS ARE PAVED.
AND THERE IS A HUGE SHOPPING
MALL.
BUT LALA IS EMBLEMATIC OF
THE DIFFERENCE A NEW SOUTH
AFRICA --
>> MY FAMILY IS ALWAYS VERY
PROUD OF WHAT I HAVE AGREE
AGREED-- ACHIEVED.
AND THEY ARE THE GUYS WHO
REBEAR THE BRUNT OF
APARTHEID.
FOR THEM IT WAS REALLY AHEAD
OF ALL, VERY, VERY DIFFICULT
FOR BLACK PEOPLE TO START
THEIR OWN BUSINESSES.
WE ARE COMING TO REALIZE
THAT POLITICAL FREEDOM ON
ITS OWN IS MEANINGLESS
WITHOUT ECONOMIC FREEDOM.
>> A COLUMNIST HAS BEEN
CHARTING CHANGE IN THE
COUNTRY OVER THE PAST TWO
DECADES.
HE SAYS THERE ARE MORE BLACK
ENTREPRENEURS THAN EVER
BEFORE, BUT STILL NOTE
ENOUGH, HE SAYS.
AND THE OFFICIAL STATISTICS
SUPPORT THAT.
FIVE PERCENT OF BLACK SOUTH
AFRICAN ADULTS OWN A
BUSINESS.
THE FIGURE FOR WHITE SOUTH
AFRICANS IS NEARLY THREE
TIMES THAT.
>> NOU  THINGS FOR
THEMSELVES.
THAT IS VERY GOOD, ACTUALLY
BECAUSE IT ALSO CREATES
JOBS.
RATHER THAN ACTUALLY
EXPECTING THINGS TO FALL IN
THEIR LAP SIMPLY BECAUSE
THEY ARE-- I THINK PEOPLE
NEED TO UNDERSTAND THAT
FREEDOM ACTUALLY IS THE
FREEDOM TO REALLY DO THINGS
ON YOUR OWN.
>> SO IS MADLAL'S SOWETO
GOLD ANY GOOD?
LUCY CORN WRITES ABOUT SOUTH
AFRICAN BEERS IN HER BLOG
CALLED THE BREW MISTRESS.
>> IT'S GOT A DIFFERENT
FLAVOR TO THE-- BUT IT IS
VERY MUCH DESIGNED I THINK
FOR THE SOUTH AFRICAN PALATE
AND SOUTH AFRICAN CLIMATE.
IT IS A CRISP, REFRESHING
BEER IT IS VERY FULL
FLAVOURED, VERY DRINKABLE.
>> HE WORKED MANY YEARS FOR
SOUTH AFRICAN-BASED SAB, ONE
OF THE BIGGEST BEER
COMPANIES IN THE WORLD SOME
SOW HAS BREWED BEER BEFORE,
JUST NEVER LIKE THIS.
>> HERE IT IS JUST YOU.
YOU CONTROL BASICALLY ABOUT
EVERY STEP.
SO IT REQUIRES A LOT OF
ATTENTION TO DETAIL AND YOU
HAVE TO KNOW WHAT YOU ARE
DOING.
>> HE IS VERY FOCUSED ON
BREWING A CONSISTENTLY HIGH
QUALITY BEER.
HE'S ALSO VERY FOCUSED ON
MARKETING.
>> AND HIS TARGET MARKET IS
THE LARGE AND STILL GROWING
BLACK MIDDLE CLASS.
IT IS ESTIMATED THAT THE
BLACK MIDDLE CLASS IN SOUTH
AFRICAOW N EQUALS THE ENTIRE
WHITE POPULATION.
THEY HAVE SPENDING POWER AND
MANY RETURN TO SOWETO ON
WEEKENDS.
>> THIS MAN RUNS A
RESTAURANT ON THE POPULAR
VILLA KAZY STREET.
HE SAYS NEARLY HALF THE
BLACK SOUTH AFRICANS WHO
COME HERE LIVE IN RICH
SUBURBS IN JOHANNESBURG THAT
USED TO BE ALL WHITE.
>> THEY GREW UP IN SOWETO
BUT THEY STILL HAVE
RELATIVES, THEY STILL HAVE
VERY STRONG ROOTS IN SOWETO.
OFTEN THEIR IDEA OF RELAXING,
UNWINDING IS COMING BACK TO
SOWETO WHERE THEY GREW UP.
SO SOWETO SERVING THAT GOLD
BEER WOULD BE APPEAL TO
THEM.
>> HE TAKES A MORE
DISCERNING VIEW SAYING HE
WON'T DRINK IT JUST BECAUSE
MATLAA IS BLACK.
>> -- IF IT IS GOOD, I WOULD
DRINK IT.
>> SOWETO GOLD ISN'T
AVAILABLE YET ON THAT
STREET.
HE IS WORK ON CONTRACTS THAT
WILL CLEAR THE WAY FOR
DISTRIBUTION.
>> IRONICALLY YOU CAN BUY
SOWETO GOLD OUTSIDE SOWETO.
>> THIS IS A WEALTHY AREA OF
NORTHERN JOHANNESBURG.
MOST OF THE PEOPLE THAT COME
HERE ARE WHITE.
AND ONE OF THE MOST POPULAR
BEERS SOLD HERE IS SOWETO
GOLD.
I WOULD SAY THERE IS A LOT
MORE INTRIGUE.
A LOT MORE INTRIGUE ABOUT
IT.
PEOPLE WOULD LIKE TO SEE
WHAT IS GOING ON.
HOW DOES THIS WHOLE CHANGE
IN SOUTH AFRICA HAS BROUGHT
OUT DIFFERENT THINGS.
LET'S GIVE IT A TRY.
IT'S RIGHT AROUND THE
CORNER.
LET'S SEE WHAT IT IS.
LET'S SEE WHAT SOWETO GOLD
CAN PRODUCE.
>> SOWETO HAS THIS
LARGER-THAN-LIFE REPUTATION.
AND PEOPLE SEE THE NAME AND
THEY THINK WOW, THAT'S
REALLY AWESOME THIS HAS
COMPANY OUT OF SOWETO.
I WANT TO TRY THIS BEER.
I WANT TO DRINK THIS BEER.
>> THIS IS A GREAT BEER,
ACTUALLY.
>> A BETTER IS DRINKING
SOWETO GOLD FOR THE FIRST
TIME.
>> WE HAVE COME A LONG WAY,
SOUTH AFRICA.
AND FOR A BLACK MAN TO GO
AND HAVE A BREWERY AND BREW
A QUALITY BEER LIKE THIS, IT
JUST SHOWS WHERE WE HAVE
COME FROM.
WE HAVE COME A LONG LONG
WAY.
AND THIS IS THE NEW NEIGHBOR
NATION, WE ARE PROUD.
WE LOVE IT THIS COUNTRY HAS
SUCH A GREAT FUTURE.
>> SOWETO GOLD IS THE FIRST
BEER THAT OF ITS KIND BUT IT
IS NOT EXPECTED TO BE THE
LAST.
IT IS A SIGN OF SOUTH
AFRICA'S CHANGING TIMES,
MOVING FORWARD, AWAY FROM
THE MEMORIES OF ITS
RACIALIZED PAST.
>> CREATING NEW ONES EVERY
DAY.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY TONIGHT,
ARTS CORRESPONDENT JEFFREY BROWN
TALKS WITH AUTHOR HECTOR TOBAR
ABOUT HIS BOOK ON A GROUP OF
CHILEAN MINERS WHO WERE TRAPPED
UNDERGROUND FOR MORE THAN TWO
MONTHS AFTER A CAVE-IN SEALED
THEM INSIDE THEIR MINE.
>> Brown: IT WAS AN
EXTRAORDINARY STORY THAT
CAPTIVATED THE WORLD.
THERE 2010, 33 CHILEAN
MINERS WERE TRAPPED BELOW
THE EITHER IN A COLLAPSED
MINE FOR 69 DAYS.
FOR THE FIRST 17 DAYS, THEY
HAD NO CONTACT WITH THE
OUTSIDE AN WERE FEARED DEAD.
BUT AFTER A POWERFUL DRILL
BROKE THROUGH THE ROCK, THE
STORY TOOK A BIZARRE NEW
TWIST.
THE MINERS FOUND HOPE AND
FOUND THEMSELVES
INTERNATIONAL CELEBRITIES.
>> THEY WERE STILL TRAPPED
IN THIS MOUNTAIN THAT WAS
RUMBLING, HAD THREATENED TO
KILL THEM STILL.
THEY WERE WAITING TO GET
OUT.
THEY WERE DESPERATE TO GET
OUT, BUT THEY ALSO THOUGHT
WE MIGHT BE RICH.
WE MIGHT HAVE A STORY THE
WORLD WANTS TO HEAR.
SO THEY MADE THIS PACT
UNDERGROUND.
THEY DECIDED THAT THEY WOULD
SHARE, COLLECTIVELY, THE
RATES TO A BOOK.
THEY WOULD TELL THEIR STORY
TO ONE WRITER.
>> HECKER TOBAR WHO I SPOKE
WITH RECENTLY IN A MIAMI
BOOK FAIR WOULD WRITE THE
BOOK DEEP DOWN DARK, TELLING
OF THE MINE COLLAPSE, THE
RESCUE EFFORT AND MEDIA
SPECTACLE THAT FOLLOWED, AND
MOST OF ALL, THE MEN
THEMSELVES.
AND THE HARROWING ORDEAL
THEY ENDURED.
>> IT WAS AN EXTREMELY
TRAUMATIC EVENT.
IT WAS A PSYCHOLOGICAL
TORTURE.
EVEN WORKING THERE UNDER AN
ODE DAY WAS TOUGH.
THE TEMPERATURE WAS 90
DEGREES, THEY ARE 2,000 FEET
UNDERGROUND.
THEY HAVE TO GET TO THE MINE
THROUGH THIS STONE HIGHWAY
IN THE MOUNTAIN, THAT
SPIRALS DOWN TO THE BOTTOM.
IT'S 98% HUMIDITY.
MOST OF THEM DIDN'T HAVE
BREAKFAST ON AN ODE DAY
BECAUSE THEY WOULD THROW IT
UP AFTER A COUPLE OF HOURS
WORKING IN THESE CONDITIONS.
SO THE MINE COLLAPSES.
HUGE STONE CRUSHES THE ROAD
OUT.
IT BLOCKS THEIR WAY OUT WITH
A CURTAIN OF STONE, A
GUILLOTINE OF STONE AND THEY
ARE SLOWLY DYING THE FIRST
17 DAYS T WAS A VERY
EXISTENTIAL AND A VERY
SPIRITUAL THING.
BECAUSE MOST OF THE MEN WERE
FATHERS, WERE PROVIDERS FOR
THEIR FAMILY.
AND THEY REALIZED THAT THEIR
FAMILIES MIGHT NEVER SEE
THEM AGAIN.
MIGHT NEVER BE ABLE TO
PROVIDE FOR THEM FAMILIES
AGAIN.
WHEN THEY STARTED TO DIE OF
STARVATION THEY REFLECTED ON
WHAT KIND OF FATHER WAS I,
WAS I A GOOD FATHER, BAD
FATHER, A GOOD HUSBAND.
MANY OF THEM FELT THEY WERE
BEING PUN SHALLED FOR WHAT
THEY HAD DONE IN THEIR LIFE.
I DRANK TOO MUCH.
I DID DRUGS.
I'M BEING PUNISHED.
AND OF COURSE IN A GROUP
DYNAMIC LIKE THAT, UNDER
EXTRAORDINARY STRESS, THINGS
HAPPEN,.
>> EXACTLY.
LEADERS AREN'T LEADERS,
OTHER PEOPLE BECOME LEADERS,
THE GROUP CHANGES.
WHAT STRUCK YOU ABOUT WHAT
THEY WENT THROUGH IN THAT
REGARD?
>> WELL, NONE-- WHAT MANY OF
THE MEN WANTED TO TELL ME
WAS THE MAN WHO PEOPLE THINK
WAS THE LEADER UNDERGROUND
WAS NOT THE LEADER.
HE WAS THE SHIFT FOREMAN, HE
ABDICATED HIS RESPONSIBILITY
ON THE SECOND NIGHT.
AND HE DID NOT TAKE CHARGE.
THEY WANTED ME TO KNOW THAT
THE OTHER THING THEY WANTED
TO TELL ME WHICH WAS A BIG
SECRET WAS THAT ON THE FIRST
NIGHT SEVERAL OF THE MEN
STOLE SOME OF THE FOOD,
EMERGENCY SUPPLIES.
AND SO THEY STAFERBD A
LITTLE BIT MORE THAN THEY
WOULD HAVE, THANKS TO THE
DESPERATION OF A FEW MEN.
>> Brown: INCREDIBLY THEY
SURVIVED, BROUGHT TO THE
SURFACE ONE BY ONE UNTIL ALL
WERE THERE IN A JOYOUS
CELEBRATION FOR THEM, THEIR
FAMILIES, THEIR COUNTRY AND
THE WORLD.
AS HECTOR TOBAR'S BOOK SHOWS
THOUGH, THE CELEBRATION
DIDN'T LAST.
>> UNFORTUNATELY, I THINK,
ALMOST EVERY MAN HAD HIS
BREAKDOWN.
CRISISMENT BECAUSE THEY HAD
ALMOST EVERY MAN HAD HIS
BEEN TORTURED BY THE
CRISISMENT BECAUSE THEY HAD
MOUNTAIN, THE MOUNTAIN WAS
BEEN TORTURED BY THE
LIKE A MONSTER WHILE THEY
MOUNTAIN, THE MOUNTAIN WAS
WERE IN IT THAT WAS GROWLING
LIKE A MONSTER WHILE THEY
AT THEM FOR TEN WEEKS, IT
WERE IN IT THAT WAS GROWLING
LEFT THEM WITH THIS PROFOUND
AT THEM FOR TEN WEEKS, IT
TRAUMA.
LEFT THEM WITH THIS PROFOUND
SOME OF THEM HAD IT THE
TRAUMA.
FIRST THREE, FOUR MONTHS,
SOME OF THEM HAD IT THE
THEY WERE SHATTERED.
FIRST THREE, FOUR MONTHS,
I INTERVIEWED MANY OF THE
THEY WERE SHATTERED.
MEN WHO WERE TREMBLING WHEN
I INTERVIEWED MANY OF THE
I FIRST SPOKE TO THEM ABOUT
MEN WHO WERE TREMBLING WHEN
WHAT HAD HAPPENED.
I FIRST SPOKE TO THEM ABOUT
WHEN I WENT TO THEIR HOMES.
WHAT HAD HAPPENED.
OTHERS DIDN'T HAVE THEIR
WHEN I WENT TO THEIR HOMES.
CRISIS UNTIL A YEAR OR TWO
OTHERS DIDN'T HAVE THEIR
YEARS LATER.
CRISIS UNTIL A YEAR OR TWO
SO I THINK EVERY MAN, THEY
YEARS LATER.
REALLY WENT THROUGH
SO I THINK EVERY MAN, THEY
SOMETHING THAT WAS
REALLY WENT THROUGH
UNCOMPARABLE IN HUMAN
SOMETHING THAT WAS
HISTORY.
UNCOMPARABLE IN HUMAN
IN FACT, THEY WERE TRAPPED
HISTORY.
LONGER THAN ANYONE IN HUMAN
IN FACT, THEY WERE TRAPPED
HISTORY.
LONGER THAN ANYONE IN HUMAN
SO IT WAS A VERY DEPLY
HISTORY.
SHATTERING EMOTIONAL
SO IT WAS A VERY DEPLY
EXPERIENCE.
SHATTERING EMOTIONAL
>> TRAGEDY AND CELEBRITY
EXPERIENCE.
HITS THEM AT THE SAME TIME.
>> TRAGEDY AND CELEBRITY
>> RIGHT.
HITS THEM AT THE SAME TIME.
>> THE WORLD IS WATCHING,
>> RIGHT.
THEY'RE FAMOUS.
>> THE WORLD IS WATCHING,
AND THEN WHAT, IS THERE A
THEY'RE FAMOUS.
LETDOWN, ARE THEY EXPECTING
AND THEN WHAT, IS THERE A
TO STAY FAMOUS, DID THEY
LETDOWN, ARE THEY EXPECTING
BECOME RICH.
TO STAY FAMOUS, DID THEY
>> WHEN THEY CAME OUT THEY
BECOME RICH.
KNEW THAT THEY WERE THE MOST
>> WHEN THEY CAME OUT THEY
FAMOUS MINERS ON EARTH.
KNEW THAT THEY WERE THE MOST
THEY HAD BEEN CALLED
FAMOUS MINERS ON EARTH.
NATIONAL HEROES EVEN WHILE
THEY HAD BEEN CALLED
THEY WERE STILL TRAPPED.
NATIONAL HEROES EVEN WHILE
MANY OF THEM BELIEVED THEY
THEY WERE STILL TRAPPED.
WOULD NEVER HAVE TO WORK
MANY OF THEM BELIEVED THEY
AGAIN BECAUSE A CERTAIN
WOULD NEVER HAVE TO WORK
CHILEAN MILLIONAIRE HAD
AGAIN BECAUSE A CERTAIN
ALREADY GIVEN THEM $10,000
CHILEAN MILLIONAIRE HAD
EACH, WHICH IS A KING'S
ALREADY GIVEN THEM $10,000
RANSOM IN CHILE FOR A
EACH, WHICH IS A KING'S
WORKING MAN.
RANSOM IN CHILE FOR A
MANY OF THEM BELIEVED THAT
WORKING MAN.
FROM THE FILM AND THE BOOK,
MANY OF THEM BELIEVED THAT
THEY WOULD GET RICH AND
FROM THE FILM AND THE BOOK,
NEVER HAVE TO WORK.
THEY WOULD GET RICH AND
AND IT TURNED OUT THAT THE
NEVER HAVE TO WORK.
MONEY DIDN'T REALLY LAST
AND IT TURNED OUT THAT THE
VERY LONG.
MONEY DIDN'T REALLY LAST
YOU KNOW, THEY ENDED UP MANY
VERY LONG.
OF THEM HAD 20 GO BACK INTO
YOU KNOW, THEY ENDED UP MANY
MINING.
OF THEM HAD 20 GO BACK INTO
WHO WENT INTO UNDERGROUND
MINING.
MINING MONTHS AFTER BEING
WHO WENT INTO UNDERGROUND
RESCUED.
MINING MONTHS AFTER BEING
SO YOU CAN IMAGINE BEING
RESCUED.
PULLED OUT OF THE EARTH,
SO YOU CAN IMAGINE BEING
WHILE A WORLD AUDIENCE
PULLED OUT OF THE EARTH,
WATCHES, AND SIX MONTHS
WHILE A WORLD AUDIENCE
LATER, YOU ARE JUST A
WATCHES, AND SIX MONTHS
WORKING STIFF AGAIN WHO HAS
LATER, YOU ARE JUST A
TO GO BACK UNDERGROUND AND
WORKING STIFF AGAIN WHO HAS
WORK IN A MINE.
TO GO BACK UNDERGROUND AND
FOR SOME OF THE MEN WHO DID
WORK IN A MINE.
THAT, THAT WAS A VERY
FOR SOME OF THE MEN WHO DID
DIFFICULT AND EMOTIONAL
THAT, THAT WAS A VERY
EXPERIENCE.
DIFFICULT AND EMOTIONAL
>> THE BOOK IS DEEP DOWN
EXPERIENCE.
DARK, HECTOR TOBAR, THANK
>> THE BOOK IS DEEP DOWN
YOU SO MUCH.
DARK, HECTOR TOBAR, THANK
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Sreenivasan: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
POLICE IN CHINA DISMISSED
ACCOUNTS THAT A NEW YEAR'S EVE
STAMPEDE IN SHANGHAI WAS
TRIGGERED BY PEOPLE SCRAMBLING
TO CATCH COUPONS THROWN FROM A
WINDOW.
36 PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND NEARLY
50 INJURED.
AND THE HIGHEST COURT IN EGYPT
ORDERED A RETRIAL OF THREE
JAILED JOURNALISTS WHO WORK FOR
"AL JAZEEREA" TELEVISION.
THEY'VE BEEN HELD FOR OVER A
YEAR ON TERROR-RELATED CHARGES.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, NOW THAT IT'S OFFICIALLY
2015, WE'RE OFFICIALLY LIVING IN
THE FUTURE.
OR RATHER WE WILL BE IN OCTOBER,
THAT'S THE DATE THAT MARTY MCFLY
AND DOC BROWN SET IN THEIR
FAMOUS DELOREAN TIME MACHINE IN
THE MOVIE "BACK TO THE FUTURE
PART TWO."
THAT'S ONE OF THE EIGHT THINGS
YOU PROBABLY DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT
2015.
SEE THE COMPLETE LIST, ON OUR
HOME PAGE.
AND RESEARCHERS ARE TESTING A
NEW TREATMENT TO HELP HEAVY
DRINKERS CUT BACK, SO NATURALLY
THEY'RE DOING IT IN A BAR,
ALBEIT A FAKE BAR, SET UP IN A
LAB AT THE NATIONAL INSTITUTES
OF HEALTH.
THEIR GOAL IS TO CREATE A REAL-
WORLD ENVIRONMENT TO SEE HOW
THAT CAN SPARK A PERSON'S
APPETITE FOR ALCOHOL.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID GERSON, FOR
ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.